---
title: 1 March
author: Ivan Zlatev
layout: post
permalink: /2006/03/01/1-march-2/
views:
  - 5
ratings_users:
  - 0
ratings_score:
  - 0
ratings_average:
  - 0
dsq_thread_id:
  - 1456599
categories:
  - Coding
---
Today was an awful day for me. First of all I didn&#8217;t manage to sleep good enough last night and I was very sleepy in the morning. I woke up approx at 8am, because I needed to hand in the third from my five course works before 9:30 and I wanted to take a shower. There was awful cold wind outside ( probably -10C grads) and my hear was wet, because I was not expecting such a wind. I got back at 10ish and then went back to sleep but after 45 minutes my house mate woke me up, cause we had a meeting of our Imagine Cup 2006 team in the student union cafe. I&#8217;ve absolutely forgotten about this one. So I was sleepy again, cause I managed to sleep for like 10 minutes. And then we were struggling with the stupid report we needed to write, but didn&#8217;t have time to finish it because of a ultra boring lecture. We went back in the cafe to finish the work and then when were about ready it appeared that the lecturer, who must review it is not in his office and won&#8217;t be there today. Just to mention that the deadline is today for submitting the report to Microsoft. Now I am at home. I need to write snippets of code for the report in the last moment ? snippets for something we haven&#8217;t designed yet. I feel sick. I have temperature and headache. Also I have a group project with 5 more unknown guys to write till the 20th March and a approx 50-60 maths theory to learn till the 30th, so I will be able to do my course work there. The group report includes 1 web site, 2 reports, 1 spreadsheet and 1 database&#8230; sounds fun&#8230; Anyway I feel like shit now. What keeps me alive is that my girlfriend had a nice day and whenever she is happy, I am happy too :).